README.md, before:

# Raycast Engine

Welcome to the **Raycast Engine**! This project is a lightweight (CPU Only) and simple 3D rendering engine using basic libraries only and built around the concept of raycasting, which simulates the way light travels and interacts with objects in a 3D environment.

The Raycast Engine is typically used in first-person perspective games or simulations and can render walls, floors, and ceilings, creating the illusion of a 3D world on a 2D screen. Despite its simplicity, this engine allows for the creation of dynamic and immersive experiences with basic 3D elements like textures, lighting effects, and object placement. There is a LOT to uncover in this engine as there is a big API that allows for all sorts of control, giving the users a lot of creative freedom! Please note, this is classic raycasting, not raytracing. If you are interested in more advanced 3D graphics, I would recommend learning OpenGL etc.

Let me show you a quick demo of the famous liminal space "The Backrooms" rendered in this engine.

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/9v8R9GMLWoM/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/9v8R9GMLWoM)

Fix the glitch of NPCs through wall effect situation cuz that is being annoying

Pixel art variations of each zombie and all of them, why dont we dont we do the following: 3 variations of different girl zombies, 3 variations for zombie boys and they all have different perks and strengths simple random or tiny nudges to their stats type thing utilize the horde well, and we spawn a teacher a male and a female variation where they are boss and basically stop the player for a bit, are super fast etc kind of OP

Then add health mechanic so we are healed so drop health packs etc. and let zombies harm you and zombies be killed. And thus adding the score to the top

At this point it's all good to go so add a game over screen

And finally the director AI spawning all these zombies to get you with the tension meter mechanic. (L4D inspired)

Then add the fade out when we are about to begin the game effect so it looks cool and better with ok pacing when starting game game over stuff too etc

Then the music and sound design

Include a manual too with the controller buttons mapped to keys etc how to play the game

Also make the resolution of the Engine be automatic to the screens size

Play test a lot on the tv with controller and try to get a highscore!

Commit message:

Finalized pathfinding, only optimization left and minor glitches

README.md, after:

# Raycast Engine

Welcome to the **Raycast Engine**! This project is a lightweight (CPU Only) and simple 3D rendering engine using basic libraries only and built around the concept of raycasting, which simulates the way light travels and interacts with objects in a 3D environment.

The Raycast Engine is typically used in first-person perspective games or simulations and can render walls, floors, and ceilings, creating the illusion of a 3D world on a 2D screen. Despite its simplicity, this engine allows for the creation of dynamic and immersive experiences with basic 3D elements like textures, lighting effects, and object placement. There is a LOT to uncover in this engine as there is a big API that allows for all sorts of control, giving the users a lot of creative freedom! Please note, this is classic raycasting, not raytracing. If you are interested in more advanced 3D graphics, I would recommend learning OpenGL etc.

Let me show you a quick demo of the famous liminal space "The Backrooms" rendered in this engine.

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/9v8R9GMLWoM/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/9v8R9GMLWoM)

Notes on Game in Dev:
Fix the glitch of NPCs through wall effect situation cuz that is being annoying, and optimize the heck out of the pathfinding. x is your y and y is your x. keep that in mind.

Pixel art variations of each zombie and all of them, why dont we dont we do the following: 3 variations of different girl zombies, 3 variations for zombie boys and they all have different perks and strengths simple random or tiny nudges to their stats type thing utilize the horde well, and we spawn a teacher a male and a female variation where they are boss and basically stop the player for a bit, are super fast etc kind of OP

Then add health mechanic so we are healed so drop health packs etc. and let zombies harm you and zombies be killed. And thus adding the score to the top

At this point it's all good to go so add a game over screen

And finally the director AI spawning all these zombies to get you with the tension meter mechanic. (L4D inspired)

Then add the fade out when we are about to begin the game effect so it looks cool and better with ok pacing when starting game game over stuff too etc

Then the music and sound design

Also make the resolution of the Engine be automatic to the screens size

Build an Arcade Cabinet with this game! I will do that once I acquire better resources. For now the project is complete at this time.
